---
comments: true
date: ~2017.7.10
navhome: /blog
title: %clay
type: post
---

# In Which I Learn a Key Benefit of %clay

While working on [urbit-docs PR #179](https://github.com/urbit/docs/pull/179) I
encountered an interesting problem that was solved by
[%clay](http://urbit.ngzax.com/docs/using/filesystem/) in a interesting and very
satisfying way.

I had created my changes and per the current [docs on contributing to
urbit](http://urbit.ngzax.com/docs/about/contributing/), I ran them through
pandoc. Unfortunately, pandoc essentially reformatted almost all the lines and
made it very difficult to determine where my actual changes were. Not being sure
how strict the standard for the project was, I submitted it this way in the PR
anyway.

As you can guess, [Fang-](https://github.com/Fang-), the reviewer, didn't like
the confusing diff and asked me to revert it to the version without pandoc.

Unfortunately, I hadn't made 2 separate commits, one before and one after
pandoc. I had also closed out the editor so I didn't have any ability to use
undo to try to backtrack to the file before I ran pandoc.

*Clay to the rescue!*

I realized... wait! The [urbit](http://urbit.org) filesystem
[%clay](http://urbit.ngzax.com/docs/using/filesystem/) keeps a record of every
single save. So I popped into the
[dojo](http://urbit.ngzax.com/docs/using/shell) and used +cat to walk back
through the versions of the file until I found the right one:

```
+cat /=home=/web/docs/hoon/concepts/md       :: Current version
+cat /=home/24/web/docs/hoon/concepts/md     :: Aha! this is the right one.
```

And then use |cp to make a copy in the current version:

```
|cp /=home/24/web/docs/hoon/concepts/md /=home=/web/docs/hoon/concepts-no-pandoc/md
```

Then using the mounted unix files to remove the pandoc'ed version, renamed the
no-pandoc version to concept.md, and committed that and the PR was good to go.

I am sure to [urbit](http://urbit.org) veterans this all seems a bit basic, but
I felt like this was a really interesting example to show how powerful having an
entire filesystem that versions every save can be.
